# DiscoFuse

This repository contains the DiscoFuse dataset described in the paper:
* Title: "DiscoFuse: A Large-Scale Dataset for Discourse-Based Sentence Fusion"
* Authors: Mor Geva, Eric Malmi, Idan Szpektor, Jonathan Berant
* https://arxiv.org/abs/1902.10526
* Accepted as a long research paper in NAACL 2019.

If you use this dataset in your work, please cite our paper:
```
@InProceedings{GevaEtAl2019,
  title = {{DiscoFuse: A Large-Scale Dataset for Discourse-Based Sentence Fusion}},
  author = {Geva, Mor and Malmi, Eric and Szpektor, Idan and Berant, Jonathan},
  booktitle = {Proceedings of the 2019 Annual Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics},
  note = {arXiv preprint arXiv:1902.10526},
  year = {2019}
}
```

## Dataset
DiscoFuse was created by applying a rule-based splitting method on two corpora -
sports articles crawled from the Web, and Wikipedia. See the paper for a detailed
description of the dataset generation process and evaluation.

DiscoFuse has two parts:

File | Download | Source | Examples
---- | :------: | ------ | -----------------:
**discofuse_v1_sports.tar.gz** | [Link](https://storage.googleapis.com/discofuse.appspot.com/discofuse_v1_sports.zip) | Sports articles | 44,177,443
**discofuse_v1_wikipedia.tar.gz** | [Link](https://storage.googleapis.com/discofuse.appspot.com/discofuse_v1_wikipedia.zip) | Wikipedia | 16,642,323

For each part, we provide a random split to train (98% of the examples), development (1%) and test (1%) sets. In addition, as the original data distribution is highly skewed (see details in the paper), we also provide a balanced version for each part.

Overall, each part contains 6 data subsets:
* train
* train_balanced
* dev
* dev_balanced
* test
* test_balanced

## Data Format
All files are in a textual TSV (tab-separated-value) format.
Each example contains the following attributes:

**coherent_first_sentence**: The first sentence of the original text from which the
example was generated.

**coherent_second_sentence**: The second sentence of the original text from which
the example was generated. In case the example was generated from a single
sentence, this field will be empty.

**incoherent_first_sentence**: The first sentence of the split text, generated by our
rule-based method.

**incoherent_second_sentence**: The second sentence of the split text, generated by
our rule-based method.

**discourse_type**: The discourse phenomena identified in the original text. See below
a full list of all discourse types.

**connective_string**: In case a connective word was removed from the original text, it
will be specified in this field. Otherwise, this field will be empty.

**has_coref_type_pronoun**: Contains 1.0 if there was a pronoun replacement during
example generation, and 0.0 otherwise.

**has_coref_type_nominal**: Contains 1.0 if there was a nominal replacement during
example generation, and 0.0 otherwise.

Below is a list of discourse types, the prefix PAIR/SINGLE indicates whether the
example was generated from two consecutive sentences or from a single sentence.
CONN indicates a connective removal from the original text, S_COORD stands for
sentence coordination and VP_COORD for verb-phrase coordination.
* PAIR_ANAPHORA
* PAIR_CONN
* PAIR_CONN_ANAPHORA
* PAIR_NONE
* SINGLE_APPOSITION
* SINGLE_CATAPHORA
* SINGLE_CONN_INNER
* SINGLE_CONN_INNER_ANAPHORA
* SINGLE_CONN_START
* SINGLE_RELATIVE
* SINGLE_S_COORD
* SINGLE_S_COORD_ANAPHORA
* SINGLE_VP_COORD

Please see the paper for data distribution and more details on each discourse type.

## Examples
### Example 1 (from Wikipedia portion)
* **coherent_first_sentence**: Melvyn Douglas originally was signed to play Sam Bailey , but the role ultimately went to Walter Pidgeon .
* **coherent_second_sentence**: -
* **incoherent_first_sentence**: Melvyn Douglas originally was signed to play Sam Bailey .
* **incoherent_second_sentence**: The role ultimately went to Walter Pidgeon .
* **discourse_type**: SINGLE_S_COORD
* **connective_string**: , but
* **has_coref_type_pronoun**: 0.0
* **has_coref_type_nominal**: 0.0

### Example 2 (from sports portion)
* **coherent_first_sentence**: The target , which is only six feet away , serves the archer as a mirror in order to reflect the status of the archer 's mind and spirit .
* **coherent_second_sentence**: -
* **incoherent_first_sentence**: The target serves the archer as a mirror in order to reflect the status of the archer 's mind and spirit .
* **incoherent_second_sentence**: The target is only six feet away .
* **discourse_type**: SINGLE_RELATIVE
* **connective_string**: -
* **has_coref_type_pronoun**: 0.0
* **has_coref_type_nominal**: 0.0

### Example 3 (from Wikipedia portion)
* **coherent_first_sentence**: Rather than returning to England , Ingram stayed in the Gambia and turned to trade .
* **coherent_second_sentence**: However , on a visit to England in 1860 , he was declared bankrupt .
* **incoherent_first_sentence**: Rather than returning to England , Ingram stayed in the Gambia and turned to trade .
* **incoherent_second_sentence**: On a visit to England in 1860 , Ingram was declared bankrupt .
* **discourse_type**: PAIR_CONN_ANAPHORA
* **connective_string**: however ,
* **has_coref_type_pronoun**: 1.0
* **has_coref_type_nominal**: 0.0

## License
The data is licensed under Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0 license.

## Contacts
* morgeva [at] mail.tau.ac.il
* szpektor [at] google.com
